Writing docs section migration for 6 0 (#11654)
storybookjs/storybook: docs/writing-docs/doc-blocks.md

---
title: 'Doc Blocks'
---

> Doc Blocks are the building blocks of Storybook documentation pages. By default, [DocsPage](./docs-page) uses a combination of the below blocks to build a page for each of your components automatically. 

Author: rewording applied per feedback.

> Also, custom [addons](../configure/user-interface#storybook-addons) can provide their own doc blocks, and there are many available.

Author: Change applied per feedback.

### ArgsTable

> Storybook Docs automatically generates component props tables for components in supported frameworks. These tables list the [args](../writing-stories/args) of the component, and even integrate with [controls](../essentials/controls) to allow you to change the args of the currently rendered story.

Author: Change was applied. Marking this as closed.

<video autoPlay muted playsInline loop>
  <source
    src="addon-controls-docs-optimized.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
</video>

#### DocsPage

To use the ArgsTable in [DocsPage](./docspage#component-parameter), export a component property on your stories metadata:

```js
// MyComponent.stories.js

import { MyComponent } from './MyComponent';

export default {
  title: 'MyComponent',
  component: MyComponent,
};
// your templates and stories
```

#### MDX

> To use the props table in MDX, use the Props block:

Author: Change applied per feedback. Marking this as resolved.

```js
// MyComponent.stories.mdx

import { Props } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import { MyComponent } from './MyComponent';

# My Component!

<Props of={MyComponent} />
```

#### Customizing

> Props tables are automatically inferred from your components and stories, but sometimes it's useful to customize the results.

Author: Rewording applied.

<div style="background-color:#F8FAFC">
TODO: ask tom if links are accurate
</div>

> Props tables are rendered from an internal data structure called [ArgTypes](../api/stories#argtypes). When you declare a story's component metadata, Docs automatically extracts ArgTypes based on the component's properties.

Author: Rewording applied.

> You can customize what's shown in the props table by customizing the ArgTypes data. This is currently available for [DocsPage](locate-docs-page) and `<Props story="xxx">` construct, but not for the `<Props of={component} />` construct.

Author: applied change per feedback and link to the docs page was fixed.

  component: Button,
  argTypes: {
    label: {
      description: 'overwritten description',
      table: {
        type: { 
            summary: 'something short', 
            detail: 'something really really long' 
        },
      },
      control: {
        type: null,
      },
    },
  },
};
```

This would render a row with a modified description, a type display with a dropdown that shows the detail, and no control.

If you find yourself writing the same definition over and over again, Storybook provides some convenient shorthands, that help you streamline your work.

For instance you can use:

- `number`, which is shorthand for `type:{name :'number'}`
- `radio`, which is a shorhand for `control: {type: 'radio' }`

##### MDX

To customize argTypes in MDX, you can set an `mdx` prop on the `Meta` or `Story` components:

```js

<Meta
  title="MyComponent"
  component={MyComponent}
  argTypes={{
    label: { 
        name: 'label',
        /* other argtypes required */ 
    },
  }}
/>

<Story name="some story" argTypes={{
  label: { 
      name: 'different label', 
      /* other required data */  
    }
}}>
  {/* story contents */}
</Story>
```

#### Controls

> The controls inside a props table are configured in exactly the same way as the [controls](../essentials/controls) addon pane. In fact you’ll probably notice the table is very similar! It uses the same component and mechanism behind the scenes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The controls inside an ArgsTable are configured in exactly the same way as the [controls](../essentials/controls) addon pane. In fact you’ll probably notice the table is very similar! It uses the same component and mechanism behind the scenes.
```

Author: Fixed with latest commits.

### Source

Storybook Docs displays a story’s source code using the `Source` block. The snippet has built-in syntax highlighting and can be copied with the click of a button.

![Docs blocks with source](./docblock-source.png)

#### DocsPage

In DocsPage, the `Source` block appears automatically within each story’s [Preview] block.

To customize the source snippet that’s displayed for a story, set the `docs.source.code` parameter:

```js

export const CustomSource = () => Template.bind({});

CustomSource.parameters = {
  docs: { 
      source: { 
          code: 'Some custom string here';  
      } 
    },
};
```

#### MDX

> You can also use the `Source` block in MDX. It accepts either a story ID or `code` snippet the `language` for syntax highlighting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the `Source` block in MDX. It accepts either a story ID or `code` snippet. Use the `language` for syntax highlighting.
```

Author: Rewording applied.

```js
import { Source } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import dedent from 'ts-dedent';

<Source
  language='css'
  code={dedent`
     .container {
       display: grid | inline-grid;
     }
  `}
/>
```

#### ⚒️ Description

Storybook Docs shows a component’s description extracted from the source code or based on a user-provided string.

![Docs blocks with description](./docblock-description.png)

#### DocsPage

<div style="background-color:#F8FAFC">
TODO: waiting to be vetted
</div>

> In DocsPage, a component’s description is shown at the top of the page. For [supported frameworks], the component description is automatically extracted from a docgen component above the component in its source code. It can also be set by the `docs.description` parameter.

Reviewer: @jonniebigodes Add link supported frameworks page

Author: link is added

```js

export default {
  title: 'CustomDescription'
  parameters: {
    docs: { 
        description: { 
            component: 'some component _markdown_' 
        } 
    },
  }
};

export const WithStoryDescription = Template.bind({});
WithStoryDescription.parameters = {
  docs: { 
      description: { 
          story: 'some story **markdown**' 
        } 
    },
};
```

#### MDX

> In MDX, the `Description` shows the component’s description using the same heuristics as the DocsPage. It also accepts a markdown parameter to show any user-provided Markdown string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In MDX, the `Description` shows the component’s description using the same heuristics as the DocsPage. It also accepts a `markdown` parameter to show any user-provided Markdown string.
```

Author: change applied.

```js

import { Description } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import dedent from 'ts-dedent';
import { Button } from './Button';

<Description of={Button} />
<Description markdown={dedent`
  ## Custom description

  Insert fancy markdown here.
`}/>
```

### Story

Stories (component examples) are the basic building blocks in Storybook. In Storybook Docs, stories are rendered in the `Story` block.

![Docs blocks with stories](./docblock-story.png)

#### DocsPage

> In DocsPage a `Story` block is generated for each story in your [CSF] file, wrapped with a `Preview` wrapper that gives it a toolbar on top (in the case of the first “primary” story) and a source code preview underneath.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In DocsPage, a `Story` block is generated for each story in your [CSF] file. It's wrapped with a `Preview` wrapper that gives it a toolbar on top (in the case of the first “primary” story) and a source code preview underneath.
```

Author: the wording is applied.

#### MDX

In MDX, the `Story` block is not only a way of displaying stories, but also the primary way to define them. Storybook looks for `Story` instances with the `name` prop, either defined at the top level of the document, or directly beneath a [Preview](#preview) block defined at the top level:

```js
import { Story } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import { Button } from './Button';

export const Template = (args) => <Button {...args} />;

<Story name="Basic" args={{ label: ‘hello’ }}>
  {Template.bind({})
</Story>
```

You can also reference existing stories in Storybook by ID:

```js

import { Story } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';

<Story id="some-component--some-name" />
```

#### Inline rendering

<div style="background-color:#F8FAFC">
TODO: ask tom/michael about the preview iframe. as we've been calling it canvas so far and now move to preview.
And also inline rendering support location
</div>

> In Storybook’s Canvas, all stories are rendered in the [Preview iframe] for isolated development. In Storybook Docs, when [inline rendering is supported by your framework](locate-link), inline rendering is used by default for performance and convenience. However, you can force iframe rendering with `docs: { inlineStories: false }` parameter, or `inline={false}` in MDX.

Reviewer: Add link to supported framework page

Author: I've left that one, as i was unable to find the specific documentation for this. If anyone can point me in the right direction i would appreciate it.

### Source

Storybook Docs displays a story’s source code using the `Source` block. The snippet has built-in syntax highlighting and can be copied with the click of a button.

<div style="background-color:#F8FAFC">
TODO:add image per screenshot requirements (mention of a image in the SB 6.0 doc (needs to be vetted))
</div>

#### DocsPage

In DocsPage, the `Source` block appears automatically within each story’s [Preview] block.

<div style="background-color:#F8FAFC">
TODO:add image per screenshot requirements (mention of a image in the SB 6.0 doc (needs to be vetted))
</div>

To customize the source snippet that’s displayed for a story, set the `docs.source.code` parameter:

```js

export const CustomSource = () => Template.bind({});

CustomSource.parameters = {
  docs: { 
      source: { 
          code: 'Some custom string here';  
      } 
    },
};
```

#### MDX

You can also use the `Source` block in MDX. It accepts either a story ID or `code` snippet the `language` for syntax highlighting:

```js
import { Source } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';

> Import dedent from 'ts-dedent';

Reviewer 2: lowercase 'I'

Author: Thanks for catching it. Fixed with the latest commit

---
title: 'Doc Blocks'
---

Doc Blocks are the building blocks of Storybook documentation pages. By default, [DocsPage](./docs-page) uses a combination of the below blocks to build a page for each of your components automatically. 

<div style="background-color:#F8FAFC">
TODO: ask tom about both links below to where they should point to.
</div>

> Also, custom [addons] can provide their own doc blocks, and there are [many available].

Reviewer 3: Addons: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BawdfqGhsP5tqhYQbVn29c6_rAz1ePmk9QayoXLDOKM/edit#heading=h.klqpukxeadji

many available => not yet published doc blocks blog post I think. (@domyen when is that going to be published?)

Reviewer 4: Let's add this after 6.0 is released

Author: Removed the link, took a note of it and once Storybook 6 lands i'll update the docs accordingly.

|**table.defaultValue.summary**|A short version of the type                                                                     |
|**table.defaultValue.detail** |A short version of the type                                                                     |
|**control**                   |See [addon-controls README ](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/tree/next/addons/controls)|

For instance:

```js

export default {
  title: 'Button',
  component: Button,
  argTypes: {
    label: {
      description: 'overwritten description',
      table: {
        type: { 
            summary: 'something short', 
            detail: 'something really really long' 
        },
      },
      control: {
        type: null,
      },
    },
  },
};
```

This would render a row with a modified description, a type display with a dropdown that shows the detail, and no control.

<div style="background-color:#F8FAFC">
TODO: ask tom about this and how we can improve.

My read on this is that we come from null that shows no control. But we have some shorthands that help the reader to show something.

> Probably we could add this as a aside, or give it more emphasis

Reviewer 3: What are you thinking we should write @jonniebigodes?

Author: with the latest commit i reworded it. Let me know what you think. I went for clear and concise wording.

Reviewer 3: LGTM

Author: Thanks for the feedback. Marking it as solved

<div style="background-color:#F8FAFC">
TODO:add image per screenshot requirements (mention of a image in the SB 6.0 doc (needs to be vetted))
</div>

To customize the source snippet that’s displayed for a story, set the `docs.source.code` parameter:

```js

export const CustomSource = () => Template.bind({});

CustomSource.parameters = {
  docs: { 
      source: { 
          code: 'Some custom string here';  
      } 
    },
};
```

#### MDX

You can also use the `Source` block in MDX. It accepts either a story ID or `code` snippet the `language` for syntax highlighting:

```js
import { Source } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
Import dedent from 'ts-dedent';

<Source
  language='css'
  code={dedent`
     .container {
       display: grid | inline-grid;
     }
  `}
/>
```

#### ⚒️ Description

Storybook Docs shows a component’s description extracted from the source code or based on a user-provided string.

<div style="background-color:#F8FAFC">
TODO:add image per screenshot requirements (mention of a image in the SB 6.0 doc (needs to be vetted))
</div>

#### DocsPage

<div style="background-color:#F8FAFC">

> TODO: left it for now ask feedback tom/shillman on this based on [pr](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/issues/11441)

Reviewer 3: @shilman what's up with that PR? https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/issues/11441

Reviewer 4: Not implemented. I'll add it this week.

            component: 'some component _markdown_' 
        } 
    },
  }
};

export const WithStoryDescription = Template.bind({});
WithStoryDescription.parameters = {
  docs: { 
      description: { 
          story: 'some story **markdown**' 
        } 
    },
};
```

#### MDX

In MDX, the `Description` shows the component’s description using the same heuristics as the DocsPage. It also accepts a markdown parameter to show any user-provided Markdown string.

```js

import { Description } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import dedent from 'ts-dedent';
import { Button } from './Button';

<Description of={Button} />
<Description markdown={dedent`
  ## Custom description

  Insert fancy markdown here.
`}/>
```

### Story

Stories (component examples) are the basic building blocks in Storybook. In Storybook Docs, stories are rendered in the `Story` block.

#### DocsPage

In DocsPage a `Story` block is generated for each story in your [CSF] file, wrapped with a `Preview` wrapper that gives it a toolbar on top (in the case of the first “primary” story) and a source code preview underneath.

#### MDX
<div>
TODO: ask tom about Preview link for clarity.
</div>

> In MDX, the `Story` block is not only a way of displaying stories, but also the primary way to define them. Storybook looks for `Story` instances with the `name` prop, either defined at the top level of the document, or directly beneath a [Preview](locate-preview) block defined at the top level:

Reviewer 3: Preview is just linking to the preview doc block section below.

```js
import { Story } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import { Button } from './Button';

export const Template = (args) => <Button {...args} />;

<Story name="Basic" args={{ label: ‘hello’ }}>
  {Template.bind({})
</Story>
```

You can also reference existing stories in Storybook by ID:

```js

import { Story } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';

<Story id="some-component--some-name" />
```

#### Inline rendering

<div>
TODO: ask tom/michael about the preview iframe. as we've been calling it canvas so far and now move to preview.

> And also inline rendering support location

Reviewer 3: @shilman -- should we rename the `Preview` docblock to `Canvas`? I feel like that would probably make sense.

The inline rendering link would be the "Inline stories vs. Iframe stories" in the earlier `docs-page` file

Reviewer 4: I can get behind Canvas.

Documented here: https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/issues/11696

Will make the change once the docs are composed and everybody's happy with the new naming.

Reviewer 3: There are a lot of other points where we should start calling it canvas too.

Reviewer 2: Canvas sounds good to me

Reviewer: Canvas sounds good to me too 👍

</div>

In Storybook’s Canvas, all stories are rendered in the [Preview iframe] for isolated development. In Storybook Docs, when [inline rendering is supported by your framework](locate-link), inline rendering is used by default for performance and convenience. However, you can force iframe rendering with `docs: { inlineStories: false }` parameter, or `inline={false}` in MDX.

### Preview

<div>

> TODO: ask tom about Source link for clarity, as me i know that the source shows ad hoc the story file content. But another reader might not know.

Reviewer 3: I think Source just links back up to the source doc-block. Does that not make sense to you?

Author: Linked it per feedback. And yes it makes sense to point for that section

This would render a row with a modified description, a type display with a dropdown that shows the detail, and no control.

If you find yourself writing the same definition over and over again, Storybook provides some convenient shorthands, that help you streamline your work.

For instance you can use:

> - `number`, which is shorthand for `type:{name :'number'}`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `number`, which is shorthand for `type: {name: 'number'}`
```

Author: thanks for catching that one @shilman. It's fixed.
